#summary List of enhancements and bug fixes for each release.
#labels Featured

= Release Notes =

== v2.0.0 beta 4, 8/9/12 == 

Critical bug fix for issue affecting both plugin authors and users.

  * Issue 35, FsEye Plugin Loading Error when loading plugins marked as from "unsafe" internet location (affects included plugins)

== v2.0.0 beta 3, 7/31/12 == 

This release includes fixes and enhancements affecting plugin authors.

  * Issue 34, Include FsEye.dll dir in plugin search
  * Issue 35, Plugins fail to load if the plugin dir contains any non-dlls

== v2.0.0 beta 2, 7/23/12 == 

This release includes a high-priority fix affecting plugin authors.

  * Issue 32, IWatchViewer.Watch signature needs to be changed slightly
  * Issue 33, Improve plugin loading error message for ReflectionTypeLoadException

== v2.0.0 beta 1, 7/20/12 == 

This beta release primarily features work on a plugin system for FsEye. See the FsEye2Beta wiki page for documentation. 

  * Issue 25, Create plugin architecture and managerSystem.Windows.Forms.WebBrowser
  * Issue 26, Create "View PropertyGrid" right-click context menu action
  * Issue 27, Should not show "Copy Value" context menu item for organizational nodes such as "Non-public" and "Rest"

== v1.0.1, 4/13/12 ==

Maintenance release.

  * Issue 19, Crashes when trying to see details of System.Windows.Forms.WebBrowser
  * Issue 20, Bug: exception loading nodes for Ole object

== v1.0.0 final, 8/10/11 ==

  * Issue 8, Implement Babel Icons
  * Issue 9, Honor DebuggerBrowsable(DebuggerBrowsableState.Never)
  * Issue 10, Remove Unquote dependency
  * Issue 11, XML doc file missing
  * Issue 12, Call Member nodes should only refresh the first time they are selected
  * Issue 13, IEnumerator valued Watch.Children may only be enumerated once
  * Issue 14, Performance slow when objects that require complex printing are submitted to FSI

== v1.0.0 beta 2, 6/02/11 == 

Feature enhancements and defect fixes.

  * Issue 1, Defect: Should automatically reset Eye when the underlying WatchForm becomes disposed due to an exception
  * Issue 2, Enhancement: Include method members in addition to field and property members as children of a watch
  * Issue 3, Enhancement: Include fields, properties, and method from inherited base-class and explicit interfaces of a watch
  * Issue 4, Enhancement: Upon loading, watches should display and load child watches for true value type when not null
  * Issue 5, Enhancement: Add right-click context menu Copy Value function for loaded watches
  * Issue 6, Enhancement: Add right-click context menu Refresh function for root watches
  * Issue 7, Enhancement: Add right-click context menu Remove function for root watches and archives

== v1.0.0 beta 1, 5/07/11 == 

Initial release